electrical symbols allow the trace of
the current path through a circuit by
representing the different components
found on all vehicle systems there are
many ways to drop these symbols so use
the following as a general idea the
power feed symbol denotes any part of
the circuit that's tied directly to the
positive side of the battery this symbol
it's the end of any current path the
ground symbol denotes the part of the
circuit that's tied directly to the
negative or chassis side of the circuit
this symbol is the beginning when
tracing a current path through a circuit
remember current always flows from
negative to positive
the resistor represents any load present
on the circuit remember that for you to
have voltage across two different points
you have to have a resistance there is
no voltage across a straight-through Y
in other words when measuring voltage
between two points you always need a
resistor or a load in the middle the
capacitor symbol is used to denote a
component that stores energy to be later
discharged when the circuit is in actual
operation the biggest capacitor in an
engine is the actual battery capacitors
should always be taken into account
whenever doing memory reset procedures
since they store it a certain amount of
electrical power keeping the memory
going even though the battery is
actually disconnected the coil symbol is
used to denote or represent an actual
winding of copper wire coils are vastly
used throughout the different vehicle
systems being employed for example
inside the actual ignition coils which
actually generate the high voltage
necessary to fire the spark plugs coils
are also used inside the alternators
solenoids and relays of the operation
and electrical characteristics of these
components it's actually very important
whenever analyzing the actual current
flow through a circuit
the fuse is a circuit protection device
that's actually used in a circuit to
protect the wiring in the event of a
short-circuit fuses come in a variety of
different forms and shapes and they're
actually made of a material that
actually melts whenever excessive
current flows through it the junction
block refers to a part of the circuit
where there is an actual breakage in the
circuit Junction blocks are extremely
important whenever trying to find
defective circuit components such as
shorted modules are actually tying down
a network between the different modules
in order to repair these problems they
need to find a junction block for all
the actual network modules is absolutely
necessary by tapping into the main
network Junction block you can actually
disable or disconnect each module
independently and find out which module
is actually shorted therefore loading
down the actual network and preventing
all the module from communicating
remember that Junction blocks is an
actual central location from which to
test all of these components without
having to actually break the actual
circuit and hunt down for the problem
the switch is the most basic component
designed to actually complete the
circuit between negative or ground the
load and the positive side of the
circuit switches are an integral part of
automotive diagnostics especially when
it comes to power door locks power
windows electrical air conditioning
circuits and many of the accessory
components found in modern automotive
systems the light emitting diode or LED
it's a device that actually converts
98.9% of its energy into light light
emitting diodes or LEDs are widely used
in automotive applications for signaling
purposes for example most of the actual
light fun within an instrument cluster
are part of a light-emitting diode
cluster which is used to actually
determine whether you have a faulty
system the latest implementation of the
light emitting diode is in headlight
systems which are due to come out within
the next two to three years
sending units are usually denoted in a
circuit to actually represent switches
such as the oil pressure switch
temperature switches found throughout
the different vehicles in order to
activate the different fan control
circuits and any other circuit that's
actually designed to send an electrical
on-off pulse to a module or circuit
remember that sending units are not
actual sensors they're simply measuring
devices that are actually output and
on-off signal there are a few variable
output sending units out on the market
but a sending unit should never be
confused with an actual sensor that's
designed or tied into the actual
microprocessor of a system
you